## IoT_Security_Project

An autonomous alert security system, this project is made to keep homes secure by keeping homeowners and the local authorities aware of potential offenders in the area. Not all homeowners are in their home however most homeowners are near their cell phone. The homeowner will receive an image taken by a Raspberry Pi camera and a message detailing the alert  incident to their cell phone via text or mobile app notification. Further, a noise alert will be issued to the potential offender via a speaker connected to a low powered device. The device will communicate with the Raspberry Pi through MQTT, where a positive identification of a person will trigger an associated alert of the noise system and a notification to the owner. A low powered device, Arduino, will be connected to an actuator that will control a light switch near the camera to suggest to the potential offender that they have been identified and suggest to them that someone is home. The low powered device will communicate with the Raspberry Pi through MQTT. A successful identification of a potential offender will trigger the MQTT message from the Raspberry Pi to the Arduino to turn on the actuator. Lastly, the image of the potential offender will be given an identity by use of facial recognition system that will allow the potential offender to develop a tally of times visited to the premises. Offenders with higher tallys will be crossed against a public database of known criminal offenders. Successful validation of a potential offender as an officially recognized prior offender will notify the police of the offender and the location last seen. Further, these details, such as these along with the image and tally, will be published to a social platform such as Nextdoor. 

##Additionally

If you clone this repo, you must include a file named, "twilio_account.py", that contains variables for your twilio sid, auth_token, your phone number and your twilio phone number. If this is not present, your script will not work
